---
layout: post
title: Change of Plans
---

So there's been a change of plans. I have been following my outlined schedule and so far I am about 2/3 through the linear algebra series on Khan Academy while having finished the Quant Econ Python lessons. I also went through a few of the Essence of Linear Algebra videos. The progress wasn't bad, but I'm going to put all of this on a slight hold as I decided to take the GRE. In my junior year of college, I decided I was never going to go to graduate school. Screw school. I'm done with it. In senior year, I decided I was going to graduate school. Let me give school one last chance. After graduating, I affirmed I was never going to graduate school. I already have a job. Today, I decided I'm going to grad school. I've been a big flip flopper on this topic constantly weighing the pros and cons, but what really changed my mind this time was the fact that I was working 40 hours a week and that wouldn't change. If I'm putting in all this effort and time in my job and then I go home and do more work, I might as well get something out of it that I've kinda wanted. But now I want it. I found a program I like (Berkeley MIDS) and it's a part-time online program so I will still work. There are some extra steps like the GRE and application, but I might as well get a Master's degree out of all this since that's essentially what I'm doing. This data science self-study has always failed for me, but who knows maybe this time would've been it. However, it just makes sense to me right now that getting a Master's degree is the logical next step. I had always said let me work for a year and then I'll consider graduate school and the term I'm applying for starts in May so it would be almost a year. What that means is all my time after work will be spent for the GRE now, since I'm terrible at standardized tests, but for some reason I don't have that loom and gloom the SAT gave me all those years ago. In some crazy sense, I'm a bit excited to study for the GRE since I got a good feeling about it. I got a good feeling about this and I think that means this can't be a mistake. If all goes well and I'm accepted and the company contributes, then I will probably be crazy busy for a while, but I think this will finally be my time to actually learn data science and have a degree I'm proud of. I like the program structure and the curriculum and even thinking about being a part of the program makes me a little excited. If work allows, which it has been, then I'll continue following this plan since it won't hurt to finish all this by the time I start graduate school, but if not, then maybe like all my data science self-study attempts, it was a wasted effort. 

Some recommendations I'd have if I redid it all even from this short period would be to start with the Khan Academy series first and then the Essence series after. The Essence series truly ties things up in a nice, conceptual way that help make sense of all the greater technical focus from Khan. I also didn't find the Quant Econ lectures very helpful, since most honestly felt pretty damn hard. Even trying the exercises made me just jump to the solutions. They do provide some interesting ideas and topics, but they demanded a decent understanding already. Perhaps I would start with the _Data Science Handbook_ first and then do the Quant Econ lessons after. 
